
#The Wild

I thought I might love wrestling with the nature you created.

All of this—all the thickness, the scratch of dry weeds, dry dirt dug into my nails. The mosquitos, ticks, chiggers, parasites. The chilling rain and the depth of the mud while we’re on our hands and knees. The constant wind on hotter days just beating our skin dry. 

The lingering thought that we’re never fully safe from whatever black rattlesnake might lurk in the grass. Every time I walk the path from the garden up the hill to the house, I’m on the lookout for snakes.

Jake tells us to shovel this dirt over there, mix this truckload of manure with this plot of land, move this pile of straw over it. I don’t even have the strength to pick up half of what he picks up. That’s okay. I’m doing what I can, while I obsess over singularity, hoping the work in the wild will rectify my spirit.

Wouldn’t I be happier if I just lived alone in a densely populated city? Out here we have to fend for ourselves to the point of growing our own food. Out here in the mess and boringness of the land, we’ve got to wrestle with the difficulty of land. For, the land remains untamed. The land here can provide our basic necessities, and that’s what Jake pushes on us. He’s exiting the shed with a shovel and an axe. He basically hauls us out to the field, ready to take on the land, to go hands and knees into the dirt planting potatoes. And when they grow, we’ve got to know where to find them. 

I’m so underslept, from reading a physics book until 2:00 a.m., then being forced to come out here by 8:00 in the morning, I might fall asleep and have my face fall in the dirt. And Jake will be the first to notice. He’s the boss, an uninhibited one, who thinks he’s benevolent because he has a vision, because he has a determination to shape Casaboli into the way he wants it to be. He sharpens the shovels to make them slice the dirt. The axes he grinds to be even sharper. His tools are more worthwhile to him than any of the workers. By the end of the day, he has hauled in all the firewood we’ll use throughout the night, and he’ll use that to help us sleep through the night. That’s my only source of warmth, so I have to huddle next to the furnace, even though the fumes are damaging my brain.

I take my glasses off and set them aside in a safe place in the dirt. My hands turn to cold stone. My feet are wet and also cold. My face is cold. Everything about my body is useless. I work too slow to be out here. I probably work too slow for anyone here to appreciate me. That’s okay though. I’m here for the Zen experience, just being here.

The experience of just being a useless human in a field where men need to be muscular and have actual thick skin. But when I dig my hands into the dirt, my fingers get cut easily and my blood drips into the dirt. I plant the least amount of seedlings in an hour. Jake rushes down the row and plants four tomato seedlings in the time it takes me to do one. 

He built a greenhouse all within two days, just so we could have seedlings. He lights a fire in a wood stove in each of the hoop houses every night. And some nights I just stare at the distant orange ember, the puffs of smoke emerging from their chimneys, still wondering why I’m sleeping in this dirty bed, why I’m eating food grown in this ground and other grains recovered from a dumpster. I don’t know what I’m trying to accomplish here, and when I’m an elderly man I’m probably going to look back on this long phase of laziness in my late twenties and regret almost every action I took during such an unfortunate time.

#Meeting Diana

It’s not so late. Even if it were, we wouldn’t have to worry about criminals roaming among us in the Ozarks. This region, this city has an appeal to a different kind of social deviant. As soon as the sky is deep blue, and there is a single visible star above, the mimes come out. They’re street performers who like to wiggle their way up from the alleys and dilapidated apartments.
Out into the streets they come, so close that I could reach out and touch their tambourines or guitars if I wanted to. Among them is a particularly mysterious figure, talked about more often than he’s spotted. Some people around town think he’s not even real. The mimers won’t talk about him—because they won’t talk about anything—so the only people who have seen him are the night owls roaming the streets. Those who claim to have seen him have been known to lie, but if one believes they’ve seen him, then one believes they’ve seen the jinglehopper, a mime who performs miming routines from so far away that no one can try to tip him, and when anyone approaches him, he vanishes into a shadow or onto an adjacent building.

This is the night life I find more inviting. Maybe within these layers of being there’s a community or small club of people I can find inviting. Yamil knows these people better than me, and he leads me from conversation to conversation. I’m mostly a passive fellow in all these situations, but I have to push myself and exert effort.

We’re entering the lower sides of the city, near the canal and the docks. Up some steps, we’re able to look down at the Italian Plaza, a triangle-shaped area of brick ground, where about twenty people are paired up dancing a slow, elegant dance next to a fountain. A few of the women are beautiful, but I don’t talk to them. At least I can share the world with them, and admire their beauty from the ledge above them.

“Wait, I know her,” Yamil says. I ask who, and he yells, “Diana!” The woman turns her head, breaking her motion with her dance partner to glare at us. A moment later she’s up the stoop and only three feet away from me. She’s my age and exactly my height. I remember the vow I took with myself and introduce myself before Yamil can begin to go on another of his long monologues.

We go to a small bar, and the way her bangs fall in front of her face, and her cheeks are so rounded out, how she speaks with a sincere clarity, and looks me in the eye more often than any beautiful woman would ever look me in the eye…I’m trying not to overthink the meaning of any of this. We’re making eye contact outside this pub when she tells me this is her favorite place to drink dark beer, and I say, “Yes, let’s try this place; I’ve never been here.” She looks directly at me as we’re at the table, on a balcony that overlooks the streets, where we can see the screen.
We’re at an outdoor theater at the bottom of a hill, and we can hear the ambiance of a band playing in the other direction. We’re talking at length, and she’s still looking me in the eyes so often. Yamil is trying to be talkative, as always, but she’s asking questions directly to me. Then she tells me about her ambitions to go to university, her interests in philosophy and linguistics, how she knows how to dance and play a few instruments, and how she can talk about the modern world more than me. But still, she freely pats me on the shoulders when we get up from the table and she tells me where we should go next. Is this the most naive I’ve been in my life or am I finally experiencing mutual attraction? I think I should let the moment be and not overanalyze it.

In a smooth jazz lounge, we’re lying on a rug. Again Yamil is doing most of the talking. We pass our IDs to each other. She’s from the Niagara region, almost half a world away, which I didn’t even realize because her accent is so crisp, but I’m beginning to notice it now. She’s only six months younger than me. She’s a traveler, sure to be gone within the next month. That’s not my speculation; she says that aloud while I’m still staring at the portrait of her on her card.

“Well I hope to try out your tango class before then. Will you be there every time?”

“Of course! We always need more boys there too.” She sits up and shakes my arm with enthusiasm. “You should definitely come, Thiery! We’d love to introduce you.”

She has just the right amount of similarity to Kazu. I know I’m in love with her now. This is the moment I don’t want to be fleeting, already gone as I’m holding it in my attention, how she and Yamil are both smiling back at me, and she used the word “love” talking to me. Maybe—just maybe—she likes me too.

That’s enough of a reason for me to obsess over her. The next dance class doesn’t happen for two weeks. Yamil doesn’t know her well enough to ask her to visit the castle or to another outing before then. I’m going to be hopelessly bored until then.

When I sit on the couch in the living room, or at my desk, I’m feeling like a proper type of hole has been set into the back of my head, to let all the toxic buildup drain out appropriately. Every detail of what’s in the room or some strange movement that Kazu is making next to me pops out to me now. Everything. Everything. And this is only the surface level of being in love? How incredible it must be to actually experience love! How I’ve always wanted it. How God made me a human that wants it but can never have it, until…maybe now I’m destined to find it.

And even though I’m back at my desk, ready to work on the same reading and writing I’ve been working on for the past two years, almost every day, I’m different, only by a little. I’m different enough to begin convincing myself that I’m a kind, intelligent, good-enough-looking man to find real love, not some kind of pseudo-love that I’m pretending to feel. I know you’re real. And when you finally read these words, I know you’ll feel fulfilled when I tell you that I have thought of you every single day that I have lived, from the days before I met Kazu, to being in the field, at my desk, in the barn, out by the docks, hiking the mountain—you have been with me in all of those places.

For the first few days, this obsession of Diana is a relief. I’m not thinking anything about micro-interactions, or the static noise of the modern world, or what I’ve already said to myself one hundred times over while planting the same kale plants for the early spring. I’ll think about what I’m able to think about, then exit my way of thinking about her. That’s the most of what I’m able to concentrate on. The more I try to think that I’ll deserve love one day, the more I’ll strengthen those neurons, and I’ll eventually be able to forget that I’m in a place of constant change and impermanence, imperfection.
I want to master a social theory or know a lot about something. For some unexplainable reason, I’m driven to dump my time into the same activity over and over. This is why I came to this castle: to read and write. When anything disturbs me from that routine, I get incredibly frustrated, and now I’m able to do it, but all I really want to do is indulge myself in my love obsession.

The memory is already being rewired and shaped differently in my neuroplasticity. I know that I don’t know how the moment actually occurred anymore. All I know is my morphed version of the events. I’m probably remembering her gaze to be more intense and serene than it actually was. A slight smile from her I’ve amplified to be her glee. Her grazing my arm, pulling me to walk down another street, I’ve taken to be a grasp, a signal that I should follow her beyond this night, that she’s inviting me into the surface of her life. If I could be that fortunate, I would never feel negativity again, I swear to God I wouldn’t. To know her like I know someone in the castle, for her to know me that way—how could I ever conceive of misery again? Even fantasizing about this possibility gets my heart pumping and my tea tasting like a rare nectar from the depths of the earth. If we could have a couple of moments laughing in a booth at a decent restaurant, in a separate bed late at night, by a fountain in a plaza…if I had a memory like that to keep, I would never care about getting older. The work in the field would never fully drain me. Any university could reject my application, and I would just laugh. I would truly be an immortal man. Anything can come to take me if I get to know love, because then I would truly believe in divinity. Let me have it. Just let me have it now, God. Stop holding it from me. I can’t get over meeting her. I can’t handle knowing that I can see her again when I go to the dance class. I can’t imagine the possibility of losing touch with her. But that’s what will happen to me, isn’t it?

I’ll try not to think about that.